add scripting tasks config vignette (#86)
hubverse-org/hubAdmin: vignettes/articles/scripting-tasks-config.Rmd

---
title: "Scripting task configuration files"
---

```{r, setup, include = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  collapse = TRUE,
  comment = "#>"
)
```
## Introduction

> The `tasks.json` configuration file is a the source of truth for validating a
> hub and is also one of the most complex aspects of a hub. This configuration
> file is a formal representation of an official collaborative forecasting
> challenge that allows direct and unambiguous evaluation and comparison of model
> outputs. It allows hub administrators to set a clear standard for model
> submissions.

Reviewer: I think the phrase "source of truth" could be a little confusing because of our/the community's historical use of "truth" for target data. I also think it's nice to lead with what the config achieves. Hence the suggested revision below:
```suggestion
The `tasks.json` configuration file is a formal representation of a collaborative forecasting
challenge. This configuration file sets a clear standard for model outputs in a hub,
which enables validations of model output submissions to ensure that they are correctly
formatted. Configuration settings in the tasks configuration file also contain structured
information about modeling tasks that can be used for downstream applications like
evaluations and visualizations of model outputs.
```

> While we provide [a hubTemplate](https://github.com/hubverse-org/hubTemplate/)
> for use to get started with setting up a hub, JSON files are easy for a computer
> to read, but not so easy for a human to read and less so to write. The hard part

Reviewer: The main goal of this suggestion is to simplify sentence structure.  But also, I felt like there was a little bit of a missing connection between using the template hub and the difficulty of manually editing json files.  For example, I might still recommend that someone build a hub starting from the template regardless of whether they plan to edit the tasks.json file manually or use these functions to create it.
```suggestion
JSON files are easy for a computer to read, but not so easy for a human to read and write. The hard part
```

Action
workflow](https://github.com/reichlab/variant-nowcast-hub/blob/29a9265d0b30f385fc47195d3d7f65ecda7a41d2/.github/workflows/create-modeling-round.yaml#L47)
that [runs a
script](https://github.com/reichlab/variant-nowcast-hub/blob/main/src/make_round_config.R)
to append a new round with updated variants to model on a weekly schedule!

In this vignette, we will use the config creation functions in `hubAdmin` to
create a `tasks.json` file that represents two rounds of a modeling effort to
predict influenza hospitalizations and optionally deaths 1 to 4 weeks ahead
with mean, median, and quantile predictions in the US, and optionally 5 states.

Before getting to the scripting, it's important to get a general look at what
a `tasks.json` file looks like structurally.

## Structure of a `tasks.json` configuration file

The structure of a `tasks.json` configuration file roughly looks like the
diagram below:

```
tasks.json
├─schema_version: "https://.../v4.0.0/tasks-schema.json"
├─rounds:
│ ├─round_id_from_variable: true
│ ├─round_id: origin_date
│ ├─model_tasks:
│ │   ├─task_ids:
│ │   │ └─[...]
│ │   ├─output_type:
│ │   │ └─[...]
│ │   └─target_metadata:

> │ │     └─[...]

Reviewer: The different amount of indentation for the branch under `model_tasks` (relative to the branches under `tasks.json`, `rounds`, etc.) stuck out to me.  Is there a particular reason for that choice?

Author: sorry no I fucked up

Author: fixed in 01484bd6a15457ac3af49b5c5e600b138d4cbc98

built against. The schema is used to validate the structure and contents of the
config file. The next property defined is the list of **rounds** which sets the
identifier (`round_id_from_variable`, `round_id`), expected contents of model
submissions (`model_tasks`), and schedule (`submissions_due`) for each round.

<div class="alert alert-info">

There are two ways to define the number of rounds in a hub: 1) One round object
that uses a date task ID variable (most common) or 2) Several round objects
with unique round IDs (least common). In our example, we will be using the
first method by using a variable called `origin_date` to define our rounds on a
weekly basis. To make this work, we set `round_id_from_variable: true` so that
the schema knows that `round_id` is actually a reference to the `origin_date`
variable in `task_ids` so it can validate that the round IDs are unique.

</div>

These rounds contain one or more [**modeling
tasks**](https://hubverse.io/en/latest/user-guide/tasks.html) that define the
expected content of a model submission against one or more modeling targets.
Each modeling task includes three properties:

>  - `task_ids`: a collection of variables that can be used for modeling efforts.
>    **Each unique combination of task ID values represents a single modeling task**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `task_ids`: a collection of variables that can be used for modeling efforts.
   Examples of task ids include `location` and `origin_date`.
   **Each unique combination of task ID values represents a single modeling task**.
```

as a class `target_metadata_item` with additional attributes about the schema
that created it:

```{r tmh}
str(target_metadata_hosp)
```

Likewise, `target_metadata` is a combination of `target_metadata_hosp`,
and `target_metadata_death`:

```{r, tme}
str(target_metadata)
```

If this process just creates lists with metadata, then why bother using `hubAdmin` functions at all to create them?
The benefit is that `hubAdmin` `create_*()` functions provide some basic validation of objects when creating them, helping you catch some potential mistakes sooner. For
example, some of the values are interdependent and if you accidentally leave one
out, the function will provide a helpful error:

```{r tmh-example}
#| error: true
create_target_metadata_item(
  target = "inc hosp",
  target_name = "Weekly incident influenza hospitalizations",
  target_units = "rate per 100,000 population",
  target_keys = list(target = "inc hosp"),
  target_type = "discrete",
  is_step_ahead = TRUE
)
```

Now that we have defined the targets in `target_metadata`, we can move on
to defining the task ID objects, which will define what the modeling parameters
will be.

### Creating the `task_id` objects

> In this modeling effort, we want to **require** modelers to provide week-ahead
> predictions for the "weekly incident influenza hospitalizations" target
> (`inc hosp`). Model submissions can optionally include five states, provide up
> to 4-week-ahead predictions, and also provide predictions for the "weekly
> incident influenza deaths" target (`inc death`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this modeling effort, we want to **require** modelers to provide week-ahead
predictions for the "weekly incident influenza hospitalizations" target
(`inc hosp`) at the national level (`location` = `"US"`). Model submissions can
optionally include five states, provide up to 4-week-ahead predictions, and also
provide predictions for the "weekly incident influenza deaths" target (`inc death`).
```

```{r set-task-ids}
origin_date <- create_task_id(
  "origin_date",
  required = NULL,

>   optional = c("2023-01-02", "2023-01-09", "2023-01-16")

Reviewer: Question: is there some way to indicate that these are expected to be date objects rather than strings?  I'm thinking here about the schema for parquet submissions.

Author: There doesn't appear to be `create_task_id()` expects strings:

from https://hubverse-org.github.io/hubAdmin/reference/create_task_id.html?q=create_task#details

> Task_ids that represent dates must be supplied as character strings in ISO 8601 date format (YYYY-MM-DD). If working with date objects, please convert to character (e.g. using [as.character()](https://rdrr.io/r/base/character.html)) before supplying as arguments.

)

location <- create_task_id(
  "location",
  required = "US",
  optional = c("01", "02", "04", "05", "06")
)

horizon <- create_task_id("horizon", required = 1L, optional = 2:4)

target <- create_task_id("target", required = "inc hosp", optional = "inc death")

task_ids_example <- create_task_ids(origin_date, location, horizon, target)

```

Now that we've created the task IDs that specify the modeling tasks, we can define the outputs we
expect from the models. 

### Creating the `output_type` objects

For this example, we want to have three output type objects:

1. a required `"mean"` output type with a "double" value

> 2. a required `"quantile"` output type with a "double" value

Reviewer: Very minor point -- but it might be good to use an integer data type for the quantile predictions in this example.
```suggestion
2. a required `"quantile"` output type with a "quantile" value
```

Author: See my first comment about my own problems with this narrative. As I mentioned, I think this is a "good enough" first start to get things moving. I will open an issue to fix the narrative problems later.

Author: so I'm going to resolve this and we can demonstrate that quantiles can also be integers later when we solve the other narrative problems.

3. an optional `"median"` output type with an "integer" value

Additionally, our two targets will accept a different combination of output
types. Specifically, target `"inc hosp"` will only accept `"mean"` and
`"median"` output types while `"inc death"` will only accept `"mean"` and
`"quantile"` output types. 

```{r create-output-type-ids}
mean_out_type <- create_output_type_mean(
  is_required = TRUE,
  value_type = "double",
  value_minimum = 0
)

median_out_type <- create_output_type_median(
  is_required = FALSE,
  value_type = "integer",
  value_minimum = 0L

)

quantile_out_type <- create_output_type_quantile(
  required = c(0.25, 0.5, 0.75),
  is_required = TRUE,

>   value_type = "double",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  value_type = "integer",
```

  value_minimum = 0
)
```

Now that we have our base `output_type_item` class objects, we can combine them to create `output_type` class objects that we want to use for each particular target. 

```{r combine-output-types}
output_type_mean_median <- create_output_type(mean_out_type, median_out_type)

output_type_mean_quantile <- create_output_type(mean_out_type, quantile_out_type)
```

### Creating the `model_task` objects

As previously discussed, we want to require a "mean" output for both tasks, but we want a "quantile"
output type for the `inc death` target and an optional "median" for the `inc
hosp` target.

```{r create-model-task}
model_task_hosp <- create_model_task(
  task_ids = task_ids_example,
  output_type = output_type_mean_median,
  target_metadata = target_metadata
)

model_task_death <- create_model_task(
  task_ids = task_ids_example,
  output_type = output_type_mean_quantile,
  target_metadata = target_metadata

> )

Reviewer: I'm confused here because In the text just above we said we were going to have different output types for the different targets, but:
- both `model_task_hosp` and `model_task_death` use `task_ids_example`, which included both `target`s
- similarly, it seems like it'd make sense to include only the relevant `target_metadata` for each target

Author: This was pretty much my question and I don't know the answer to it: 

> Specifically, why would we have two modeling tasks that have identical task IDs but share only a "mean" output type?

Again, I was adapting this from the tutorial that currently exists.

Reviewer: OK, it makes sense to me to merge this in in its currently slightly awkward state, with plans to revisit the example to make it more realistic and self-consistent soon

through Github Actions.  For example, the [variant nowcast
hub](https://github.com/reichlab/variant-nowcast-hub/tree/main) uses a [GitHub
Action
workflow](https://github.com/reichlab/variant-nowcast-hub/blob/29a9265d0b30f385fc47195d3d7f65ecda7a41d2/.github/workflows/create-modeling-round.yaml#L47)
that [runs a
script](https://github.com/reichlab/variant-nowcast-hub/blob/main/src/make_round_config.R)
to append a new round with updated variants to model on a weekly schedule!

In this vignette, we will use the config creation functions in `hubAdmin` to
create a `tasks.json` file that represents two rounds of a modeling effort to
predict influenza hospitalizations and optionally deaths 1 to 4 weeks ahead
with mean, median, and quantile predictions in the US, and optionally 5 states.

Before getting to the scripting, it's important to get a general look at what
a `tasks.json` file looks like structurally.

## Structure of a `tasks.json` configuration file

The structure of a `tasks.json` configuration file roughly looks like the
diagram below:

```
tasks.json
├─schema_version: "https://.../v4.0.0/tasks-schema.json"
├─rounds:

> │ ├─model_tasks:
> │ │   ├─task_ids:
> │ │   │ └─[...]
> │ │   ├─output_type:
> │ │   │ └─[...]
> │ │   └─target_metadata:
> │ │     └─[...]
> │ ├─round_id_from_variable: true
> │ ├─round_id: origin_date

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
│ ├─round_id_from_variable: true
│ ├─round_id: origin_date
│ ├─model_tasks:
│ │   ├─task_ids:
│ │   │ └─[...]
│ │   ├─output_type:
│ │   │ └─[...]
│ │   └─target_metadata:
│ │     └─[...]
```
Again just to conform with schema ordering

│ └─submissions_due:
│   └─[...]
├─output_type_id_datatype: "auto"
└─derived_task_ids:
  └─[...]
```

The first property in a `tasks.json` file is the `schema_version`, which provides
a URL to the [hubverse schema](https://github.com/hubverse-org/schemas) version the config file is built against. The schema is used to validate the structure and contents of the config file.

> The next property defined are the **rounds** which set the schedule and expected contents of model submissions

Reviewer 2: The next properties given the above suggestion is actually `round_id_from_variable` and `round_id`. This doesn't appear to be discussed until a lot later. Maybe we should add a short reference here too?

Author: I can do that. It's a bit unfortunate that `round_id_from_variable` appears before `round_id` because the former implies knowledge of the latter.

Author: addressed in 0ebd33d8de5309bc801692bdc3fd1ea11cf2abec

These rounds contain one or more [**modeling
tasks**](https://hubverse.io/en/latest/user-guide/tasks.html) that define the
expected content of a model submission against one or more modeling targets.
Each modeling task includes three properties:

 - `task_ids`: a collection of variables that can be used for modeling efforts.
   **Each unique combination of task ID values represents a single modeling task**.
 - `output_type`: the expected model output representation
 - `target_metadata`: characteristics for each target (an example of a modeling
   target is "Daily incident Flu Hospitalizations")

## Creation of a `tasks.json` file

To create the `tasks.json` file, we will start from the inside out. This means
that we will create the `target_metadata`, `task_ids`, `output_type`s first.
We will then use those to create two `model_task` objects and then bundle them
into two `round` objects, which will be inserted into a `config` object.

Before we start, the first thing we need to do is to set

> the correct version of [the hubverse schemas](https://github.com/hubverse-org/schemas). By default, scripting a tasks config will use the latest schema release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the correct version of [the hubverse schemas](https://github.com/hubverse-org/schemas). By default, the `create_*()` family of functions use the latest schema release.
```

> To make sure we can always reproduce the task, it's a good idea to explicitly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make sure we can always reproduce the task or append new tasks at a later date, even if a new schema version is released in the meantime, it's a good idea to explicitly
```

  collapse = TRUE,
  comment = "#>"
)
```
## Introduction

The `tasks.json` configuration file is a the source of truth for validating a
hub and is also one of the most complex aspects of a hub. This configuration
file is a formal representation of an official collaborative forecasting
challenge that allows direct and unambiguous evaluation and comparison of model
outputs. It allows hub administrators to set a clear standard for model
submissions.

Creation of this configuration file is not easy, however---and it should not
be easy because setting a hub up for success requires a lot of care in
understanding what you are attempting to model. This includes knowledge of
what factors are important as modeling parameters and what is the best
representation of model outputs that allows for effective evaluation and
summarization so decisions can be made quickly.

While we provide [a hubTemplate](https://github.com/hubverse-org/hubTemplate/)
for use to get started with setting up a hub, JSON files are easy for a computer
to read, but not so easy for a human to read and less so to write. The hard part
of creating a `tasks.json` file should be what model parameters to use, not

> constantly looking at JSON syntax or hunting down a missing comma.

Author: Thank you! This is a great motivating example!

In this vignette, we will use the config creation functions in `hubAdmin` to
create a `tasks.json` file that represents two rounds of a modeling effort to
predict influenza hospitalizations and optionally deaths 1 to 4 weeks ahead
with mean, median, and quantile predictions in the US, and optionally 5 states.

Before getting to the scripting, it's important to get a general look at what
a `tasks.json` file looks like structurally.

## Structure of a `tasks.json` configuration file

The structure of a `tasks.json` configuration file roughly looks like the
diagram below:

```
tasks.json
├─schema_version: "https://.../v4.0.0/tasks-schema.json"
├─rounds:
│ └─model_tasks:
│   ├─target_metadata:
│   │ └─[...]
│   ├─task_ids:
│   │ └─[...]
│   └─output_type:

> │     └─[...]

Author: Thank you. I was a bit conflicted by the mismatch initially, but it makes sense to present this in the same order as the config.

├─round_id_from_variable: true
├─round_id: origin_date
├─submissions_due:
│ └─[...]
├─output_type_id_datatype: "auto"
└─derived_task_ids:
  └─[...]
```

The first item in a `tasks.json` file is the `schema_version`, which provides
a URL to a schema that validates the file is in the expected structure.
It then defines the **rounds** that sets the cadence of the model submissions.
These rounds contain one or more [**modeling
tasks**](https://hubverse.io/en/latest/user-guide/tasks.html) that define the
expected content of a model submission against one or more modeling targets.
Each modeling task includes three elements:

 - `target_metadata`: characteristics for each target (an example of a modeling
   target is "Daily incident Flu Hospitalizations")
 - `task_ids`: a collection of variables that can be used for modeling efforts.

>    **Each unique combination of task IDs represents a single modeling task**.

Author: This is conflicting with the next suggestion and I will fix it in there.

 - `output_type`: the expected model output representation

## Creation of a `tasks.json` file

To create the `tasks.json` file, we will start from the inside out. This means
that we will create the `target_metadata`, `task_ids`, `output_type`s first.
We will then use those to create two `model_task` objects and then bundle them
into two `round` objects, which will be inserted into a `config` object.

### Creating the `target_metadata` objects

The `target_metadata` provides both human-readable (`target_name` and
`target_units`) and machine-readable (e.g. `target_type` and `is_step_ahead`)
information about the targets.

```{r create-target-metadata}
# Load the hubAdmin package
library(hubAdmin)
# Create a representation of a `target_metadata` item as a list object of class
# `target_metadata_item`, the `target_metadata_hosp` that will hold the

> # metadata for the target of incident influenza hospitalizations

Author: Good point. Will change.

to 4-week-ahead predictions, and also provide predictions for the "weekly
incident influenza deaths" target (`inc death`).

```{r set-task-ids}

# Create a representation of a task ID item as a list object of `class
# task_id`, the `origin_date_id`
origin_date_id <- create_task_id(
  "origin_date",
  required = NULL,
  optional = c("2023-01-02", "2023-01-09", "2023-01-16")
)

# Create a representation of a task ID item as a list object of `class
# task_id`, the `location_id`
location_id <- create_task_id(
  "location",
  required = "US",
  optional = c("01", "02", "04", "05", "06")
)

# Create a representation of a task ID item as a list object of `class
# task_id`, the `horizon_id`
horizon_id <- create_task_id("horizon", required = 1L, optional = 2:4)

# Create a representation of a task ID item as a list object of `class
# task_id`, the `target_id`
target_id <- create_task_id("target", required = "inc hosp", optional = "inc death")

# Combine the `task_id` objects to create a `task_ids` class object, the
# `task_ids_example`
task_ids_example <- create_task_ids(origin_date_id, location_id, horizon_id, target_id)

```

> Now that we've created the modeling parameters, we can define the outputs we

Author: Agreed. Since there's a double "the" in your suggestion, I'm going to add it here and I'm also going to de-duplicate "define"

```suggestion
Now that we've created the task IDs that specify the modeling tasks, we can define the outputs we
```

expect from the models. 

### Creating the `output_type` objects

For this example, we want to have three output type objects: a required "mean"
and "quantile" outputs with an optional integer "median".

```{r create-output-type-ids}
# Create a representation of a `mean` output type as a list object of class
# `output_type_item`
mean_example <- create_output_type_mean(
  is_required = TRUE,
  value_type = "double",
  value_minimum = 0
)

# Create a representation of a `median` output type as a list object of class
# `output_type_item`

> median_example <- create_output_type_median(

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
median_out_type <- create_output_type_median(
```

  is_required = FALSE,
  value_type = "integer",
  value_minimum = 0L

)

# Create a representation of a `quantile` output type as a list object of class `output_type_item`
quantile_example <- create_output_type_quantile(
  required = c(0.25, 0.5, 0.75),
  is_required = TRUE,
  value_type = "double",
  value_minimum = 0
)
```

Now that we have our base output types, we can combine them to create output
types that we want to use for each particular task. 

```{r combine-output-types}
# Combine the point estimate `output_type_item` objects to create an
# `output_type` class object, the `output_type_mean_median`
output_type_mean_median <- create_output_type(mean_example, median_example)

# Combine the other `output_type_item` objects to create an `output_type` class
# object, the `output_type_mean_quantile`

> output_type_mean_quantile <- create_output_type(mean_example, quantile_example)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
output_type_mean_quantile <- create_output_type(mean_out_type, quantile_out_type)
```

```

### Creating the `model_task` objects

> For both tasks, we want to require a "mean" output, but we want a "quantile"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As previously discussed, we want to require a "mean" output for both tasks, but we want a "quantile"
```

output type for the `inc death` target and an optional "median" for the `inc
hosp` target.

```{r create-model-task}

> #Create an object of class `model_task` representing a model task, the `model_task_hosp`

Reviewer 2: Same with above re comments

model_task_hosp <- create_model_task(
  task_ids = task_ids_example,
  output_type = output_type_mean_median,
  target_metadata = target_metadata_example
)

#Create another object of class `model_task` representing a similar model task, the `model_task_death`
model_task_death <- create_model_task(
  task_ids = task_ids_example,
  output_type = output_type_mean_quantile,
  target_metadata = target_metadata_example
)

# Combine the `model_task` objects to create a `model_tasks` class object, the
# `model_task_example`
model_task_example <- create_model_tasks(model_task_hosp, model_task_death)
```
Now that we have a set of model tasks, we can create rounds for them.

### Creating the `round` objects

While the model tasks define what a model output submission should look like,

> the round defines the cadence of submissions and the timeframe under which a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the round additionally defines the schedule of submissions and the timeframe under which a
```
_additionally_ because it also contains all the info contained in the model tasks and using a more lay person word instead of cadence

submission is considered valid.

The most common way to create rounds is to create a single `round` object that

> tracks a date variable, in this case `"origin_date"`. The submission window for a given round is a period of one week, where the beginning of the window is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and specify a date task ID whose values will act as the round IDs for each round. These round IDs are used to calculate the submission window for each modeling round. In our example, we specify `"origin_date"` as the source variable for round IDs. We also specify that the submission window for a given round is a period of one week, where the beginning of the window is
```

4 days before the origin date and the end of the submission window is 2 days
after the origin date. This means if you have an origin date of 
`r format(as.Date("2023-01-02"), "%A %Y-%m-%d")`, then valid submission dates
for that round are from 
`r paste(format(as.Date("2023-01-02") + c(-4, 2), "%A %Y-%m-%d"), collapse = " to ")`

```{r create-rounds}

> # Create a representation of a round as a list object of class `round`, the

Reviewer 2: Same as above re comments

# `round1`
round1 <- create_round(
  round_id_from_variable = TRUE,
  round_id = "origin_date",
  round_name = "Round 1",
  model_tasks = model_task_example,
  submissions_due = list(
    relative_to = "origin_date",
    start = -4L,
    end = 2L
  )
)

# Combine the `round` objects to create a `rounds` class object, the `rounds`
rounds <- create_rounds(round1)
```

### Creating and saving the `tasks` config file

And the penultimate step is to create a config file and write it out to your
hub.

```{r create-tasks, eval = FALSE}
# Create a representation of a complete `"tasks"` config file as a list object
# of class `config`

> config <- create_config(rounds, output_type_id_datatype = "auto")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
config <- create_config(rounds)
```
If not specified, `output_type_id_datatype` defaults to `"auto"` (i.e. a missing `output_type_id_datatype` defaults to `"auto"`). If we're not going to discuss this setting it might be best to remove it. Having said that demonstrating it's use, e.g. by setting it to `"character"` and explaining briefly the situations when a hub admin might want to use it might actually be quite useful. I'll leave it up to you to decide either way.

Author: this is a good point and a good way to link back to the documentation about maintaining a stable output type id type.

> # Write the `config` object to a JSON file (note that this will overwrite any

Reviewer 2: same as above re comments

# existing file with the same name in the "hub-config" folder)

> write_config(config, overwrite = TRUE)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
write_config(config)
```
Not necessary the first time a file is written. Might in fact be useful to demonstrate that the default settings protect you from overwriting and that `overwrite` argument allows you to overwrite

Author: good point! Given that this is generating a file from scratch, I'll leave `overwrite` out.

```
```{r really-write}
#| echo: false
tmp <- tempfile(fileext = ".json")
config <- create_config(rounds, output_type_id_datatype = "auto")
write_config(config, config_path = tmp, overwrite = TRUE)
```

<details>
<summary>contents of `hub-config/tasks.json`</summary>

````json

```{r show-config}
#| echo: false
#| results: asis
writeLines(readLines(tmp))
```

````

</details>

## Validating your config file

One of the strengths of specifying configuration in a JSON format is that it's
machine-readable, which means that no matter how complex a JSON file gets, **it
can be easily and rapidly validated**. All hubverse configuration files are
validated against a central set of [hubverse
schemas](https://github.com/hubverse-org/schemas/) that specify _how_ a
configuration file is constructed. This allows any tool to be able to read a
JSON file and validate it against the schema to ensure it's valid. 

To check that your configuration file is valid, you can use the
`validate_config()` function from the root directory of your hub:

```{r validate-config-show}
#| eval: false

> validate_config(config = "tasks")

Reviewer 2: just a note that "tasks" is the default value of `config` so `validate_config()` would also work

Author: I included it specifically because during my first walkthrough of the hubverse documentation, having "tasks" as the default was not clear, so I wanted to highlight it here.

```

```{r validate_config}
#| echo: false
res <- validate_config(config_path = tmp)
attr(res, "config_path") <- "/path/to/hub/hub-config/tasks.json"
res
```

### The importance of validation

Validating your config files is important because while we can validate simple
relationships during the construction of the configuration file, it's not always
possible to validate the relationships between the elements until the final

> configuration file is written and it can be validated against the schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configuration file is written and can be validated against the schema.
```

Take for example if we wanted to create two rounds to our current config that

> has a different submission window from 2023-01-09 to 2023-01-16 (note that this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
has a different submission window from `"2023-01-09"` to "`2023-01-16"` (note that this
```

)
two_rounds <- create_rounds(round1, round2)
new_config <- create_config(two_rounds, output_type_id_datatype = "auto")
```

```{r create-tasks-too, eval = FALSE}
write_config(new_config, overwrite = TRUE)
```
```{r really-write-too}
#| echo: false
tmp2 <- tempfile(fileext = ".json")
write_config(new_config, config_path = tmp2, overwrite = TRUE)
```

Now we can attempt to run a validation:

```{r validate-config-show-too}
#| eval: false
validation_result <- validate_config(config = "tasks")
validation_result
```

```{r validate_config-too}
#| echo: false
validation_result <- validate_config(config_path = tmp2)
attr(validation_result, "config_path") <- "/path/to/hub/hub-config/tasks.json"
validation_result
```

Now we are getting a notification about six errors. Let's look at the error
table: 

```{r err}
#| results: asis
view_config_val_errors(validation_result)
```

The reason why this came up is because we were defining two rounds that shared
identifiers because they both inherited identifiers from `"origin_date"`. Each
round must have a separate and unique identifier. This is because we forgot to
set `round_id_from_variable = FALSE` in our second round. If we change that,

> the the config becomes valid:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the config becomes valid:
```
